# Image-Processing-Matlab
In this project our sir made a device called BOCT(Biospeckle Optical Coherence Tomography).With the help of this device we got 100 BOCT scanned images of each Rice Control sample without any exposure, Test Sample exposed to PVA and Test Sample exposed to PVC microplastics respectively. We first studied the whole concepts behind the project and how the seedling is germinating and is growing. Then our main work was to process the 100 BOCT scanned images into a single image that shows the Biospeckles present in the control and the test samples. So as to differentiate between the Biological activity of the seed when it's exposed to microplastics and when it is not. The greater the Biological activity the more is the Biospeckle. We processed the images and got our results in MATLAB. We thought MATLAB is really good platform for doing this project as it based on Matrix type since the pixels are in matrix format. So all our codes and the final images were done in MATLAB. 
**Motivation:-**  I created this project so that we could process too many images and get one final image indicating the changes in the image.It's like an overall summary of multiple images of same type and determine the changes in the pixels with a different color. The color could also be altered by changing the RGB values(between 0 to 1) in the code.thus, getting the image which we desire.
**Framework Used-** **MATLAB**
## Project info.:-
### Rice Control Sample:
The Control_code.m has the code that I made to process 100 sample images of rice control sample. Code starts with reading all the 100 images then it runs a loop and we get the mean image then we find out the standard deviation and get the Control_std image. Further we want to differentiate the biospeckles to get the biological activity. For that I first labelled each pixel and then allotted them their own color via my own colormap which I created. Finally, we get Control std our img2.fig as our final image. Also, I used default Colormap hsv too to get Control std default map.fig. The colorbar besides the image gives the color of pixels according to their label values. Altering the RGB values in my colormap gave Control std our img1.fig and Control std our img3.fig respectively. Different filters or colormaps provide us with a better and clear image with lesser noise and good distinction of Biospeckles. 
### Test Samples exposed to PVA:
The PVA_code.m has the code that I made to process 100 sample images of rice sample exposed in PVA. Code starts with reading all the 100 images then it runs a loop and we get the mean image then we find out the standard deviation and get the PVA_std image. Further we want to differentiate the biospeckles to get the biological activity. For that I first labelled each pixel and then allotted them their own color via my own colormap which I created. Finally, we get PVA std our img2.fig as our final image. Also, I used default Colormap hsv too to get PVA std default map.fig. The colorbar besides the image gives the color of pixels according to their label values. It shows the there is less biological activity in the PVA samples compared to Rice Control Samples.Altering the RGB values in my colormap gave PVA std our img1.fig and PVA std our img3.fig respectively. Different filters or colormaps provide us with a better and clear image with lesser noise and good distinction of Biospeckles.
### Test Samples exposed to PVC:
The PVC_code.m has the code that I made to process 100 sample images of rice sample exposed in PVC. Code starts with reading all the 100 images then it runs a loop and we get the mean image then we find out the standard deviation and get the PVC_std image. Further we want to differentiate the biospeckles to get the biological activity. For that I first labelled each pixel and then allotted them their own color via my own colormap which I created. Finally, we get PVC std our img2.fig as our final image. Also, I used default Colormap hsv too to get PVC std default map.fig. The colorbar besides the image gives the color of pixels according to their label values. It shows the there is least biological activity in the PVC samples, lesser Biological activity in the PVA sample compared to Rice Control Sample.Altering the RGB values in my colormap gave PVC std our img1.fig and PVC std our img3.fig respectively. Different filters or colormaps provide us with a better and clear image with lesser noise and good distinction of Biospeckles.
## Installation
To use this project you need to install MATLAB R2022a with all the required products helping it like image processing tools,etc. Link for installation:- https://in.mathworks.com/downloads/
